---
layout: post
title: 数学分析
date: 2019-01-25
categories: blog
tags: [笔记(Notes)]
description: Some Thoughts
math: true
---

2019-01-26

Claim: $$ S $$ is an ordered set with least upper bound property, then it also has greatest lower bound property.

Proof. Suppose $$ B \in S $$, $$ B \neq \emptyset $$ and B is bounded below.  
Define $$ L $$ as the set of lower bound of $$ B $$. We will show that $$ \alpha = sup L \in S $$ and $$ infB = \alpha \in S $$.  
- $$L$$ is a nonempty subset of $$S$$, which is bounded above by any element in $$B$$. That implies $$ \alpha = sup L \in S $$ by the L.U.P. of $$S$$.  
- (i) Intuition: Any element in $$B$$ is an upper bound of L, s.t., the supremum of $$L$$ is a lower bound of $$B$$. More formally, because $$ \alpha = sup L \in S $$, $$ \forall　\beta<\alpha $$, $$\beta$$ is not an upper bound of L. Thus $$\beta \notin B$$. Using the contrapositive, for every element $$\beta$$ in B, $$\alpha \leq \beta$$.
- (ii) For $$\beta>\alpha$$, $$\beta \notin L$$, i.e., $$ \beta $$ is not a lower bound of $$B$$.

2019-01-27

Claim 1 (Archimedean Property of $$R$$) If $$x\in R$$, $$y\in R$$ and $$x>0$$, then there is a positive interger $$n$$ such that $$nx>y$$.

Claim 2 (Denseness of $$Q$$ in $$R$$) If $$x\in R$$, $$y\in R$$ and $$x<y$$, then there exists a $$p\in Q$$ such that $$x<p<y$$.

2019-02-04

The topology on the metric space $$M=(A,d)$$ induced by (the metric) $$d$$ is defined as the set $$\tau$$ of all open sets of $$M$$.

2019-02-06

"The easiest open set in a metric space are balls; the easiest way to ensure that all points are covered is to use all points as centers; the easiest way to ensure best "granularity" is to allow arbitrarily small radii." – Hagen von Eitzen Sep 4 '12 at 6:22  
(source: https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/190817/prove-every-compact-metric-space-is-separable)

2019/02/21

An interesting example-a compact subset of $$R$$  
Let $$K=\{0\}\cup\{\frac{1}{n}|n=1,2,...\}$$. Show that K is compact.  
Preperation: (1) Archimedean property; (2) Heine-Borel property.  
Proof: Let $$\{G_\alpha\}_\alpha$$ be an open cover of K. Since $$0\in K$$, it is contained in one of the open sets, called $$G_0$$. As we know $$G_0$$ is open, $$\exists \delta>0$$, s.t. $$B(0,\delta)	\subset G_0$$. By Archimedean property, $$\exists N\in N$$, s.t., $$n\geq N \Rightarrow \frac{1}{n}<\delta$$. i.e., $$\frac{1}{n}\in B(0,\delta)	\subset G_0, \forall n\geq N$$. Suppose $$\frac{1}{n}\in G_{n}$$, for $$n\in \{1,2,3,...,N-1\}$$. So there always exists a finite subcover $$ \cup^{N-1}_{\alpha=0}G_\alpha$$.

References:
- A nice background intro from MIT Analysis II: [Metric spaces](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-101-analysis-ii-fall-2005/lecture-notes/lecture1.pdf)
- UC-Davis Professor Hunter's lecture notes

2019-02-23

Today's topic is continuity and compactness.

1. (characterization of continuity using open sets) Show that $$f:X\rightarrow Y$$ is continuous iff $$f^{-1}(V)$$ is open, for every open set $$V\subset Y$$.

Proof. ($$\Rightarrow$$) WTS: $$f^{-1}(V)$$ is open.
Pick $$p\in X$$ and $$f(p)\in V$$.  
Claim: There exists $$\delta>0$$, s.t., $$B_{X}(p,\delta)\subset f^{-1}(V)$$, i.e., $$q\in B_{X}(p,\delta)$$ implies that $$f(q)\in V$$.  
By openness O of $$V$$, there exists $$\epsilon$$, s.t. $$B_{Y}(f(p),\epsilon)\subset V$$.  
By continuity of f, $$\forall \epsilon >0, \exists \delta>0, s.t. q\in B_{X}(p,\delta) \Rightarrow f(q)\in B_{X}(f(p),\epsilon)$$.

There exists $$\delta>0$$,$$q\in B_{X}(p,\delta) \Rightarrow f(q)\in B_{X}(f(p),\epsilon) \Rightarrow B_{Y}(f(p),\epsilon)\subset V$$

($$\Leftarrow$$) WTS: f is continuous.  
Claim: $$\forall \epsilon >0, \exists \delta>0, s.t. q\in B_{X}(p,\delta) \Rightarrow f(q)\in B_{Y}(f(p),\epsilon)$$.  
Pick $$p\in X$$. Construct $$V:=\{y\in Y: d_{Y}(f(p),y)<\epsilon\}$$, for arbitrary $$\epsilon>0$$.  
V is open $$\Rightarrow$$ $$f^{-1}(V)$$ is open.  
Since $$f(p)\in V$$, $$p\in f^{-1}(V)$$.  
By openness, there exists $$\delta>0$$, s.t., $$B_{X}(p,\delta)\subset f^{-1}(V)$$.  

$$\forall p\in X, \exists \delta>0, s.t., \forall q\in X and q\in B_{X}(p,\delta) \Rightarrow f(q)\in V, i.e., d_{Y}(f(p),f(q))<\epsilon$$.

This completes the proof. (Nice! Reference: Rudin, theorem 4.8)

2. $$f:X\rightarrow Y$$ is continuous and X is compact. Show that $$f(X)\subset Y$$ is compact.

Proof. (We need the first theorem proved today.)  

Suppose $$\{G_i\}_{i}$$ is an open cover of $$f(X)$$. ($$\forall i$$,$$G_i$$ is open in Y and $$f(X)\subset \{G_i\}_{i}$$).  
By theorem 1, since f is continuous, f^{-1}(G_i) is open for every i.  
Claim: $$X\subset \{f^{-1}(G_i)\}_i$$.  
$$f(X)\subset \{G_i\}, for some i \Rightarrow X\subset \{f^{-1}(G_i)\} for some i\Rightarrow X\subset \{f^{-1}(G_i)\}_i$$.  
By compactness, $$\exists m\in N, s.t. X\subset \{{f^{-1}(G_{i_j})\}_{j}, j=1,2,...,m$$.
Thus, $$f(X) \subset \{{G_{i_j}\}_{j}, j=1,2,...,m$$.


- [Beliefs about Intelligence](https://www.nature.com/scitable/content/ne0000/ne0000/ne0000/ne0000/18254975/WSF-Ch2.pdf#toolbar=0)
- [Learn Math without Tears](https://news.stanford.edu/news/2015/january/math-learning-boaler-012915.html)
- http://stanford.edu/~gschaeff/171-18f/
- [Chicago undergraduate mathematics bibliography](https://www.ocf.berkeley.edu/~abhishek/chicmath.htm)
- [Injective(1-1 mapping) , Surjective(onto), bijective(1-1 correspondence)](https://www.mathsisfun.com/sets/injective-surjective-bijective.html)
